# Project-401
14 MW Wind Power Project of BMD Power in Maharashtra by IGESL

The wind farm is owned by BMD Power Pvt Ltd., (BMD- Project Proponent or PP). The total installed
capacity of the BMD Wind Project is 14 MW wind power project in Sangali district of Maharashtra.
The BMD Wind Projects consists of 7 WTGs of 2.0 MW each. The entire Engineering, Procurement
and Construction (EPC) are provided by M/S Shree Maruti wind park developers.

The generated electricity from the WTGs is grid connected wind power project located in Karajangi
and Valsang village of Sangali District in the state of Maharashtra (India). The purpose of this plant
installation to supply electricity to regional MSEDCL Grid. The wind power projects are operational
activities with continuous reduction of GHGs, currently being applied for voluntary carbon offset units
(CoUs) under “Universal Carbon Registry” (UCR). The commissioning date of the first WTG
consideredas the start date of the project activity and is recorded as (30.03.2014)

In the absence of the project activity, electricity would have been delivered to the grid by the operation
of fossil fuel-based grid-connected power plants and by the addition of new fossil fuel- based
generation sources in the Grid. As is the nature of wind projects (renewable energy), no fossil fuel is
involved for power generation in the project activity. The electricity produced by the project is directly
contributing to climate change mitigation by reducing the anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases
(GHGs, i.e., CO2) into the atmosphere by displacing an equivalent amount of power at grid.
The project activity is hence the installation of new grid connected renewable power plants/units. The
baseline scenario and scenario existing prior to the implementation of the project activity are both the
same.

The project activity is displacing an estimated annual net electricity generation i.e., 17230 MWh /
Yr fromthe Indian grid system, which otherwise would have been generated by the operation of fossil
fuel-based grid-connected power plant. The estimated annual average CO2e emission reductions by the
project activity are expected to be 15500 tCO2e / Yr, whereas actual emission reduction achieved
during the first CoU periodshall be submitted as a part of first monitoring and verification.
